Thank you again. Good afternoon. Welcome, everyone. Thank you. Now I give short talks, which is a
reminder of our practices.
So we follow the instructions of the great master of his humble Dzogchen. As I spoke a little bit
about how this teaching came from and his story of how that happened,
also I think I mentioned it already, and of course it's nothing too difficult to know. You can
understand that easily. But now this, again, the teaching itself begins here.
Here, in this head, my glass. Here, in this head, to check the full advantage of the life that is
so difficult to obtain.
From here, in the world, which is almost this end of the world, that is really the teachings. This
teaching is the essence teachings of the entire Buddha teachings.
What that means, the entire teaching of the Buddha Chaturman.
Buddha reached enlightenment or become the Buddha, according to his story, as age 35. From age 35
onwards, Antrahi entered Mahaparinirana.
They gave the varieties of teachings to all the living beings. According to their capabilities,
their readiness, the Buddha gave the teachings.
These teachings are according to what they should, to the individuals. Buddha knows exactly how to
give, how to share, how to develop their spiritual realizations.
Buddha never opposed. But every single teaching, so what he gave, all that teaching goes directly
to revealing one's own energy and nature.
Buddha's teaching is known as the teaching of the natural. Exactly where things are, where they
should be.
It's not exaggerated, not overstated or understated, where things as it's simple. Just simple. Pr
ank directly. That is what this teaching is.
That teaching is also non-volence. Teaching is peaceful. Teaching is equal to all the living beings
.
This is not just a Buddha mad at that because he taught the good, but actually that's the way
things are. Everyone is equal.
As I mentioned yesterday, and as well as you all know, it's equal. Every level we all equal.
Natural level, that means the nature of the mind, the importance of our individual, our own beings
is also equal.
The gracious kindness compared to the teacher said loudly, "There is no difference between the
Buddha himself as well as all the living beings. We are all equal."
Because when he becomes a Buddha, he pursues that true energy, natural, as inherited, with courage,
commitment, confidence, determination, combined with love, compassion, joy and appreciation.
This is also all. This is what I'm talking about, courage, commitment, determination, love and
compassion. Those who can't be very fancy or extraordinary, but reality is our nature, your nature
and my nature.
Buddha pursues that true nature as it is, without diluted or deluded by the duality conceptions. He
really maintains that's what he becomes fully aware to others, free from old obscurities, negat
ivities, ego clings, self-important, self-centered models.
So that is what they really owe to. This teaching is even though short, looks like simple. Reality
contains all the teachings.
All 35, oh sorry 45 years of the Buddha's teaching are condensed in this mega powerful summary
teachings by His Holiness of the Universe, something easy to digest it, easy to cooperate with it,
easy to activate it,
easily can apply to every aspect of our lives, not just only during the sitting meditation or
sitting practices. Practice means generally, practice all time, means maintaining always on the
natural skills, way things are.
What did the teaching say always? Meditation and post-meditations. For the practitioner, those who
do a retreat, then the practicing or the meditation state is longer.
They do for example 24 hours, we look 24 hours, how long they practice. They practice maybe 80% of
the 24 hours meditating, cultivating, relaxing, reflecting the teaching that they learned, they
received, they are observing it in the heart center, activating that nature.
But mostly every individual, as many of us, how much we practice, everything percentage of the 24
hours. Maybe 2 hours, 1.5 hours, or 1 hour, those may be good times.
When we are busy, when we are rushed, maybe it just do 5 minute practice, maybe that's it. In 24
hours, 5-10 minutes of practice is not very much, not very much.
Even if we are sitting in one glass, one cup of the struggle of coffee, it will take 10 minutes,
more than 10 minutes. So think of that, I am talking practical level, but we follow that.
Every 10-15 minutes, we think we practice, oh I practice this 15 minutes, but reality is touch down
to the ground and think in the reflector depth.
Practice means we are not practicing to please the Buddhas or please someone that. Practice means
to improve ourselves, glorify our beautiful good naturals, from the way nature is.
Glorify our loving kindness, our compassion, our understanding, then after all our mindfulness,
alertness.
This is good for me, is good for my family, friends, neighbors and whole countries. That's true, it
's not just exaggerating and making stories.
Nobody can really deny on that. That's what the Buddha taught. So now what Buddha taught, all those
teachings, 45 years of teachings can be summarized into 3 teachings that you all know.
As I said earlier, I am reminding you all to read so many teachings from many great masters, as
well as I am sure you read so many books.
There are so many really beautiful books, teachings are not translated. Everything is your reach,
our reach. So I am sure you read.
But entirely teaching can be summarized into 3 teachings. Those are known as 3 basket teachings or
in the way they know some.
Basket, Vinaya basket, Sutra basket, Abhidharma basket. What does that mean? Basket. Basket means
Vinaya is not just a single one or single Vinaya.
It contains all the good Buddhas. What are those Buddhas? But generally, what are teaching?
Again, the meaning of these 3 basket teachings summarizes what can be understood. Those are known
as morality teaching, concentration teaching, concentration teaching, as well as wisdom teaching.
So Abhidharma alone contains all these 3. Vinaya teaching is the principle of teaching on the
morality or conduct, ethics, but yet it contains meditation, concentration, wisdom teaching.
So therefore, it is a beautiful abundance of the goodness of the basket, the field in a basket
named as Vinayas.
Vinaya means discipline. Discipline of our body, discipline of our verbal communication of speech,
discipline of our mind.
In the context of the nature, nature, discipline, back to nature, we are out of range of the nature
. So come back to nature.
Gentle, peaceful, humble, simple, yet very thoughtful. That's beauty, that's peaceful. Something
soothing, something is rewarding.
Even when you do that, if you are able to do that, when you reflect back to that what you did,
truly it is rewarding and beautiful.
That is what Vinaya teaches. And such as Suttara teaching.
According to Suttara's principle of teaching on concentration, meditation, but yet it contains also
morality teaching, it contains the wisdom teaching.
It's the combination of all those beautiful 3 and related many beautiful other natures of beauty.
And then Abhidhamma is the same thing. So therefore, it's called basket. It's just full of a
beautiful basket that is filled with the goodness of the true nature of our own richness.
So that we can revert one up another. We can unfold this beautiful, glorious nature of peace and
harmonious.
Ublifting, rewarding. To me, rewarding to the others, or to us, to the others. That's what really
the beautiful basket is.
So all these teachings, now here, great master, his own union, every land to practice, every land
to take the word, the full advantage of this life that which is difficult to obtain.
Life that is difficult to obtain is referring to our own disparate lives. Our life is difficult to
obtain.
Often, this generally, again when practicing dharma, dharma in the Buddha's teaching, there is
generally 300 attitudes, 300 different attitudes.
And those 3 attitudes are known as, every attitude of the old practitioners, every attitude.
Then attitude of the sarvaka and party buddhas attitude. And then bodhisattva attitude. Those are
known as the average attitude.
And then sarvaka and the party buddha attitude, party buddha, or bodhisattva attitude.
The average attitude of that practice in dharma, many people think, just average goals in this
lifetime.
Some really comfort, good things, beautiful, kind of recollections, recognitions, and as well as a
little bit kind of good result, benefit, and good status, and for both practices in dharma, I will
get those things.
I like to practice kind of, just as merely thinking of these lives, kind of better status, better
recognitions.
Even those who believe in the next lifetime, they also think that I practice these, that will give
me better rebirth in the next lifetime.
Or in higher realms, such as female realms, or the god's realms, so forth, kind of thinking of that
.
That kind of attitude in practicing dharma is known as attitude of the average practitioners, the
average.
Then the party buddha and as well as sarvakas, that attitude is of course, the samsara has so many
difficulties, so many troubles.
One after another, I don't really like to put this whole challenge to the difficulty of one after
another.
I like to read ultimate state of peaceful, and ultimately free from this samsara state.
Therefore, I'm going to practice and meditate and follow the according instructions, those are
known as the attitudes of the sarvaka and as well as the party buddha, the attitudes.
Then there is another attitude, the third one, bodhisattva attitude.
Bodhisattva attitude is known as the supreme attitude, according to the teaching.
It is the biggest attitude, not just thinking only themselves or them, but thinking others,
therefore others are the front than themselves.
Thinking about all living beings, how many days have they been going difficult, challenged,
troubles, one after another in life, it's just so much.
Therefore, I really like to benefit and help.
For that reason, I would like to get enlightenment and for that reason I'm practicing.
And develop the bodhisattva and following the six-part-a-mother or the ten-part-a-mother practices,
like the realizations.
And those are known as bodhisattva's motivations.
Those are generally average, but now in the practicing lineage, in what the university can say,
then you reflect poor renunciation thoughts, poor renunciation thoughts.
Those are firstly known as the instructions on the precious lives, instructions.
Second is the instructions on the impoverished.
Third is the instructions of the cause and effect as I inevitably.
And fourth is the instructions on the samsara has large challenges, large difficulties.
Those are the four different points, teachings, which is also known as these four teachings.
Exiled four teachings is the essence of the false true noble truth that what the great teacher Bod
hisattva came and gave first to know.
When Bodhisattva came and reached enlightenment at 35,
after seven weeks he gave the first teaching known as false noble truth teachings.
This false noble truth teaching, of course, you all know, again, as I said, I'm reminding all of us
as much as I can.
False noble truth teaching is suffering truth.
Second is the cause of suffering truth.
Third is the part truth. And fourth is the sacred truth.
This false true truth, suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, that is true truth,
is the essence of this false point of the training of the mind of poor renour as a source.
Precious life, impermanent again, and cause and effect are inevitable.
And the samsara has a dire difficult challenges.
So this, and now with this understanding, now what we call here.
Here we said here, here the great master is on the vision which he said in the teaching.
First is the human body, our life, here it does not as life, but it is our human body.
Our human body, our life is again so precious, so many ways.
First everything of this life, what is the teaching of the friend said?
Life is, if we use life, this is our own precious life, it is the vehicle to enlightenment.
It is vehicle. It is vehicle according to your practices.
Practicing of the Theravada, Omahayana or the Vayayana, according to that level,
this body, if we use right way, is a vehicle that leads to the show.
And if we didn't use this life, precious life, exactly as it should be,
then it is vehicle to the unending, difficult, unending,
un-infinite source of the difficulties.
How many times he said it is the anchor, anchor, anchor of the samsara.
So this will be, it will lead and keep us in the samsara.
In the samsara, not just regular samsara, it could keep us in the lower ranks.
So therefore, this body is, if we use right way or if we use the wrong way,
that will determine our future destination according to all the teachings.
It is so precious, so important. It is crucial, important.
If we use the right way or if we use the wrong way, wrong way.
Who will do that? Who will decide the right, use the right way, wrong way?
No one is outside going to decide that, except one's own samsara.
We have 100% one authority to our own situation.
Particularly when we have such as 18 endowments, among that add freedoms.
And you all know that our baby listed those things tomorrow to add freedoms.
We have all add freedoms. When you have the add freedoms,
we have the perfect choice, perfect authority.
Whatever we like to use is our lives.
For the good reason, for the wrong reasons.
Even our intention may be like to be good reason,
but our activity, if we don't do the right way with mindfulness,
then it could turn into the sour,
completely opposite way you want, where it's becoming.
This is as I said, it's nobody's authority or in control, except our own samsara.
Particularly, such as all the practitioners, we have every freedoms.
Regularly, in many parts of this country, or this world, there are so many beautiful freedoms.
Freedoms, every year, those are right ways.
Definitely, we have the perfect opportunity to gain them.
So, therefore, here, great master, he's on the university,
change the activity of these lives, spiritual lives.
Life is your usage, or your sight.
Whatever you like to do, you can do now.
Everything is in your control, in your outreach,
each beautiful status.
Therefore, please don't be slow down.
For that reason, great master Chandy Deva said, guide in the way of life.
And use the boat, boat, B-O-A-T, boat, of these swimming lives.
Close the shore of the samsaras.
This is the right time to do. Don't pull out.
It's difficult to open such beautiful opportunities in the future, where you have them.
That's the principle meaning of what I said by Chandy Deva.
So, therefore, this spiritual life is so important.
Life is so beautiful.
Therefore, with great joy and appreciation, respect, respect,
and use this some degree of purposes.
Purposes, that to benefit you to oneself, to the others.
Others. And that is what the great Buddha said in the teacher often.
Preferring the dual purpose.
Preferring the one's own purpose of good things.
Preferring the good purpose of others.
Then we're fulfilling the good, fulfilling the two purposes.
Following the footsteps of the Buddha.
For following the Buddha Shakyamuni, for following his own purpose,
in a way, he becomes total enlightenment.
Preferring all obstacles, negatives, difficulties, troubles,
and fulfilling the benefit of all the beings to different emanations,
sakayas in the teachings, all that spread, and still the teaching of the Buddha.
Where would it exist? And we're applying.
This is his message, Buddha's teachings.
And Buddha Shakyamuni himself said,
"Even my procedure is not existing in the end of the Dijai Dijai times,
but if there's teaching around the domain, that is me."
It's me. I'm with you, that. That is me.
So this means that we apply the teaching to right, to our heart and mind,
as the Buddha taught, which is good for us.
It's not just because we are following Buddhism,
Buddha teaching that I like to follow.
It's not because it's so good.
It's good in the beginning, good in the middle, and good in the ending.
It is teaching us love, kindness, compassion, respect,
behave to every living being, stay harmon, peaceful,
explore the goodness, beauty of ours and others.
Help to that. Inspire that in that status.
Don't let the same near beautiful nature in a kind of unknown status.
Reveal that goodness. Call it this. Activate that call it this.
That is known as the potable of the Buddha, potable of Munguripayi Masam.
Truly we will win in the samsara, winner of the samsara.
Be as simple, humble, don't to the earth,
but yet for falling so nice and beautiful.
Something is a harmony blended, not just a kind of bouncing back and forth
in a clutch of things, harmony mingling, beautiful.
That is really the message, the teaching of the Buddha.
So if we do that, that will then make the meaning of this,
and with this thought, and then we will follow these teachings.
Again, I'm going to go slowly to this teaching as I said yesterday,
because many of you already know these teachings,
so if I kind of go through this path and then go into something next month,
going again, this and that is just, I don't, I thought maybe it's not necessary,
and principally we need to reach together, together and meditating, practicing,
and doing the healing practice for this timeless, the right situation
to kind of curl that or demolish the spirit.
Really we build a heart, build a thought.
Practicing, and that is known as the practicing, practice of the bodhicitta
and following footsteps of the old, great masters, our best capabilities,
which is wonderful, which is beautiful, that I believe.
And so that's my brief talk.
For today, thank you very much everyone for participating and listening
and trying to understand what I will say to you with my accent.
So hopefully you're understanding 70%, 80%, 70%, some degree,
or maybe some degree, maybe those who are familiar with my language,
maybe understanding 89% and then 9%.
And they have no answer, so I'm sorry, because now we just cured.
So get there again in about 20 minutes. Thank you everyone.